Most of us have been attending meetings
for years—some for decades,
others for our entire life.
But isn’t it good to stop and pause
from time to time and think to ourselves
and ask ourselves,
‘Why am I attending meetings?’
It seems like such a simple,
basic question but how profound
because it has huge meaning for us!
It really shows our motives,
what’s inside, and it shows our goals.
It affects our relationship with Jehovah
as well as others.
Our Watchtower  article
under consideration for today is entitled
“Why Should We Meet Together for Worship?”
So there’s our clue, “for worship.”
And the Watchtower  article
featured a box entitled
“Reasons to Attend Meetings.”
As shown on the monitor,
the box listed eight reasons.
And they were grouped into
three basic categories.
The first is how you are personally affected.
So we receive education at the meeting
and also encouragement.
They bring us closer to Jehovah
through his holy spirit,
and we can tap into that powerful spirit.
The second area is how others are affected.
So we have an opportunity
to show our brothers and sisters
that we love them
and that we want to encourage them.
And the last category
is how Jehovah is affected.
As we go to the meetings
and we have good meeting attendance,
it really gives us an opportunity
to give Jehovah what he deserves
—our heartfelt praise, our worship.
It shows Jehovah that we want
to draw close to him and his Son, Jesus.
And last, it demonstrates
that we support God’s sovereignty.
Now, this is the way The Watchtower  listed
these subjects, these categories.
But if you were to rearrange these,
how would you put these
in order of importance?
Isn’t it true that worshipping Jehovah
is the most important reason
why we go to the Kingdom Hall?
These other reasons are good.
We benefit; others benefit.
But as we meditate and we stop and think,
‘Are meetings a priority in my life
‘even if I’m tired, even if I’m full of anxiety,
or if I’m going through some difficult times?,’
we need to stop, think, and meditate
on why we go to meetings.
It’s to worship Jehovah.
And that’s exactly
what the composer of Psalm 116 did.
He paused, he stopped,
and he thought
about his relationship with Jehovah
and what he could do
to serve Jehovah more in the future.
He saw how Jehovah
helped him through the difficult times
as well as the good times.
He took this time, in Psalm 116,
to reflect on all that Jehovah did for him,
and it’s good for us to do the same.
So please open your Bibles
or your tablets with me to Psalm 116.
And as we find that psalm,
we will see that the psalmist
really tells us
some wonderful things about Jehovah
and how we can cope with our issues.
We see here this psalm
is referred to as “a song of gratitude.”
And we see this right away in verse 1,
where the psalmist
makes this thankful saying,
this expression of gratitude:
“I love Jehovah.”
Well, there are many reasons
why he loved Jehovah,
but he starts out by saying
“because he hears my voice,
my pleas for help”
and in verse 2:
“He inclines his ear to me,”
and the footnote says:
“Or [he] ‘bends down to listen.’”
Now, just because the psalmist
had this relationship with Jehovah
and he loved Jehovah,
it did not mean that his life was carefree,
that it was stress free,
or that he had an easy life.
No, by no means.
In fact, it’s quite the opposite.
He had many problems,
and he had many trials.
And many of us can relate
to some of the things
that we’ll be reading in Psalm 116,
what this psalmist went through.
Notice there in verse 3,
it says that he faced death.
Well, if we were to face death,
we would feel the same way as the psalmist.
It caused him distress; it caused him grief.
There in verse 6:
“[He] was brought low.”
Well, this could mean that he felt
downhearted, weak, depressed.
Whatever the circumstances he was in,
this is how he felt.
In verses 10 and 11, he said:
“[He] was greatly afflicted.”
This caused him to panic,
to become anxious.
Now, although he was going through
some difficult times and he had these trials,
he made a vow to Jehovah.
He promised in verses 2 and 4
to “call on” Jehovah,
to give Him the praise that He deserves,
to rely on Him in prayer.
And he would do this for how long?
For as long as he lived.
And this is just what he did.
And as the psalmist reflected
on all that Jehovah had done
for his loyal servants in the past
as well as what he had done
for the psalmist himself,
it really helped him
to come to the conclusion in verse 5
that the God that he worships
is one who “is compassionate,”
one who “is . . . righteous,”
one who “is merciful.”
And in verses 6-8,
we’ll notice that Jehovah,
in the eyes of the psalmist,
is viewed as a trusted Guardian,
Savior, Rescuer,
a kind and compassionate Father,
who always provides
comfort and guidance to his children.
And all of this
—this love, this attachment to Jehovah—
what did it do for the psalmist?
Notice there in verse 10.
That strong love gave him strong faith.
It gave him the confidence
to speak up and to praise his God.
His problems did not disappear,
but neither did Jehovah.
Jehovah was always there to back him,
to give him the comfort,
and to help him endure,
to never give up.
Now, after meditating on all the ways
that Jehovah cared for him over the years,
the psalmist asked himself a question
(maybe it’s a question
we need to ask from time to time)
in verse 12:
“With what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good
he has done for me [personally]?”
So he thought about that; he pondered.
And what was the conclusion?
Notice verse 17.
He said: “I will offer to you [Jehovah]
the sacrifice of thanksgiving;
“I will call on the name of Jehovah.
“I will pay my vows to Jehovah
in the presence of all his people,
“in the courtyards of the house of Jehovah,
“in your midst, O Jerusalem.
Praise Jah!”
So we can see the determination
in the psalmist and his closeness to Jehovah.
Jehovah inclined his ear to listen to him,
to help him.
Well, this really strengthened the bond
between the psalmist and Jehovah.
He was resolved to do his best
to give thanks back to Jehovah
and live up to his promises and his vows.
It was his desire.
It was his goal to always praise Jehovah,
and he would do this for the rest of his life.
And where would he do this?
“In . . . the house of Jehovah.”
And who would he worship
“in . . . the house of Jehovah” with?
With “all [of Jehovah’s] people.”
So we see a pattern for us today.
How can we possibly pay, or repay, Jehovah?
How can we show
our appreciation for all the provisions,
all that he has done for us?
Well, we can never fully repay Jehovah;
that’s impossible.
But what we can do
is show him our love and our appreciation.
We can live up to our dedication every day.
We can give back to Jehovah
praise every week at our meetings
and in the ministry and doing so
with our brothers and our sisters.
We can also show
appreciation for the many provisions
that are available
to Jehovah’s organization today,
like our revised Bible.
What a treasure that is for us!
And then we have
the Study Bible  with all those study notes,
the videos, the pictures, the charts
—all of these helping us visual people
to understand
what Jehovah’s righteous ways are,
how he wants us to act and serve him.
We also have the many printed publications.
We have jw.org, JW Broadcasting®,
and the beautiful music and videos
that are being produced for our benefit today.
Now, these provisions
will help strengthen our love for Jehovah
and keep Jehovah
as the number one thing in our life.
But to fully benefit
from all of these provisions,
what is needed on our part?
Well, first of all, we need
to be acquainted with what is available.
We need to learn how to use them.
And then we need to take the time, slow down,
and use these tools to our benefit,
to the worship of Jehovah,
and to benefit others.
Now, thinking about it
(just a really simple illustration),
many of us have a phone.
Some of us have
these things called smartphones
(you need to be smart
to even use these smartphones).
But it takes time; it takes effort to learn
all the different features on these phones.
They can take pictures and videos.
We can study on these.
We can go on the Internet,
and we can do all kinds of wonderful things.
We could talk to our families
through Skype or different means.
We can talk (use it as a phone).
How amazing!
But with all these things,
what is needed on our part?
First of all,
we need to understand how to use it, right?
And this phone
or some of these tablets would never work
if we would not plug it into a power source.
It has to be charged
in order to be useful to us.
And isn’t that the same when we
think about what we need to do for Jehovah?
We need to be at the meetings.
We need to understand what he wants us to do
to work in accord with his will,
his purposes.
But we also need to plug ourselves
into his powerful holy spirit.
And if we do that, we will be able to give
Jehovah the worship he deserves,
we will benefit,
and then we will be beneficial to others.